---
layout: page
title: "StormLoader"
category: ref
date: 2014-10-02 21:44:01
---

StormLoader is what you use for interacting with the Storm or Firestorm. It is a standalone python program that communicates over USB that can program the Storm and connect to the serial console.

### Installation

Currently, StormLoader requires Python 2.7.x and libftdi 0.20.x. You will have the smoothest experience if you are on Ubuntu 14.04 or 14.10 64-bit. That said, several people have reported success on Arch Linux.

### Interacting with the console

If you want to watch the output of the serial console on the Firestorm, you can use `tail`. There are a few flags that are useful: `-n` does not reset the Storm after connecting, `-i` binds stdin as well so that you can type.

```
sload tail -n # watch the output of the storm but don't reset it
sload tail -i # reset the storm and attach an interactive console
```

### Packing and flashing binaries

Although the TinyOS and Storm Lua toolchain will do the packing for you automatically, you can also pack custom images for distribution and flashing. This results in a Storm Drop Binary (SDB) file. This contains debugging symbols, author and version information etc. Starting from an ELF, the SDB file can be created as follows:

```
sload pack main.elf --maintainer "Michael Andersen" \
                    --version "1.0" \
                    --name "blink" \
                    --description "my blinking application" \
                    --outfile "blink.sdb"
```

The resulting SDB file can now be used for flashing boards directly such as:

```
sload flash blink.sdb
```

If you have a copy of the previous image that was on the board, you can make use of the much faster *delta flashing* algorithm that only writes the parts that have been changed. It verifies the image and will fall back to a complete write if it doesn't match.

```
sload flashdelta oldimg.sdb newimg.sdb
```

### Publishing binaries

StormLoader also allows you to publish images to a global repository, and then flash them from any internet connected machine. The
first step is claiming a namespace for yourself using your GPG key. If you don't have a GPG key you can make one with:

```
gpg --gen-key
```

Register your namespace with:

```
sload register <name> <email> <key reference>
# eg: sload register example example@steelcode.com Michael
```

Namespaces are allocated on a first-come-first-served basis and are protected by your GPG key: only SDB's that are signed by your key will be accepted onto that namespace. You can publish an SDB to your namespace with:

```
sload publish <app> <namespace>:<name> <key reference>
# eg: sload publish blink.sdb example:blink Michael
```

Now anyone else can program their storm with your image by using cloudflash -- If you have a Firestorm, try this out yourself:

```
sload cloudflash example:blink
```

### Flashing a Lua payload

ELF's can also be written directly to the Storm as a payload. This is a special kind of flashing that is used by Storm Lua and you will likely not need it as the Storm Lua toolchain does this for you automatically. The syntax is:

```
sload program elua_lualong_storm.elf
```

This will not only write the ELF to a different section of memory, but it will scan it for the _start symbol and write the address of that symbol into attribute 1 on the storm. The Kernel knows to read this to find where to jump into the payload.
